What we need to do now is we have
two more TODOs to work through.
And they're gonna require us to
put all of our tools to use.
We are going to scroll down and
take a look at what's
happening in our file.
So, so far,
we've implemented some helper functions.
So far, we haven't actually done
anything in our script here,
we've just declared a bunch of functions.
If you'll notice,
what we've got here is a style of writing
code that has a lot more functions going
on that before where we had a lot of just
like lines of code one after another.
And this is starting to get at what
we mentioned at the beginning.
That writing code in a functional style,
where you're trying to do
everything with functions and
you're trying to make those functions
as independent from values in
the rest of the program that might
be changing over time as possible.
This is a little bit
what we're getting at.
And as I said, there's other courses you
can take including one that I have on
functional programming first
steps that talk more about that.
But what we're starting to get at is
something that looks a little bit
more similar to the type of code you often
see written in JavaScript frameworks.
Like for example react.
And so if we start scrolling down now
from our fetch message, we'll see that
we have some functions that are already
done for us like render buttons.
Now this render keyword shows or
word pops up a lot.
And in web development, especially in
JavaScript development, we're often what
we wanna do, is we wanna compute a bunch
of stuff, bunch of data that we need.
And then we want to render or
display it on the screen,
in the webpage, in the browser in
many cases, for the viewer to see.
And we tend to unlike in our quiz
example where we were kind of computing
the data we need and rendering it to
the text of elements at the same time,
Here in this new program,
we're splitting up that work a little bit.
So we're doing the data fetching and
the transformations on that
data like turning a string
into some other string or
getting a list of choices.
We're doing that work in one part of our
program, and then we're displaying that,
or actually putting it up in the page and
another part of our program.
So this is just some
high context around like,
we're starting to move towards more of
the vibe that you get when you're writing
JavaScript with a framework like React,
where these are separated.
So what we've got here is a render
buttons function that adds the multiple
choice buttons to the page.
We noticed, In our starter,
there's nothing here,
there's no buttons, we need some.
In the finished one,
we had buttons and we have a picture.
So we need to add all that stuff.
And so what we've got here, and this is
just because we already know how to do
this, we're not gonna walk through it.
We were rendering some buttons.
We're creating a button handler function
that's doing something very similar to
what we were doing before with
the correct and incorrect classes,
based on a comparison
to the correct answer.
And it's also just adding one incorrect
button and one correct button,
if we need to show that the correct
answer was somewhere else,
but you know how all that works now.
And we've got now a container
in our document, Somewhere,
a div that's got id="options", which is
where our button elements are gonna go.
But unlike in our previous example,
we don't actually have any
button elements on the page.
What gives?
Well, as with JavaScript,
we can do whatever we want to the DOM.
We can even create entirely new
elements that didn't exist before.
So that's what we're gonna do.
We're going to create, we're gonna take
each of the choices in our choices array.
Which is gonna be an argument
to this render buttons function.
Because that's some data that
we've already computed, and
we're gonna pass it in to
our render buttons function.
And we also know what
the correct answer is.
And that's how we're figuring out
what to do with our button handler.
So what we're gonna do is we're gonna
loop over our choices in our choice array
somehow.
And then create for each element,
a button element whose name,
and value, and text content properties
are all like poodle standard,
or beagle, or
whatever the thing is for that choice.
And then we're gonna attach
a click event listener.
And finally, we're gonna actually
insert my element into the page.
So in order to do this,
we're gonna need a way to actually
create a new element in the DOM.
And perhaps shockingly,
that is called createElement.
So we can call Document.createElement
button to create a new button element,
and then mess with its properties.